1. In general terms, the business activity of accepting and safeguarding money owned by other individuals and entities, and then lending out this money in order to earn a profit.

2.types of bank:
advising bank
commercial bank
central bank
community bank

3. banking sector: The banking sector is the section of the economy devoted to the holding of financial assets for others, investing those financial assets as leverage to create more wealth and the regulation of those activities by government agencies.
4. Holding of Financial Assets
This is the core of all banking, and where it began—though it has expanded far beyond the days of holding gold coins for Holy Land pilgrims in exchange for promissory notes. A bank holds assets for its clients, with a promise the money may be withdrawn if the individual or business needs said assets back. 
5.Using Assets as Leverage
Traditionally, banks leverage the money in their vaults as loans, earning money from the interest rates charged on those loans.
6.Popular Companies in the Banking Sector
Wells Fargo (WFC), the largest U.S. financial services and bank holding company by market capitalization, operates in more than 30 countries worldwide and is one of the 100 largest companies in the United States. 


7.JP Morgan Chase (JPM), like Wells Fargo, is a true American banking institution and one of the largest investment banks in the world. In addition to regular consumer and commercial banking, JP Morgan offers a wide variety of investment banking services, including raising capital in debt and equity markets, advising on corporate strategies, market making in derivatives, and brokerage and investment research services. 

8.HSBC Holdings (HSBC), headquartered in the United Kingdom, is a global banking and financial services firm that particularly appeals to income investors. The company is segmented into four divisions through which it offers a wide range of consumer and commercial banking services—retail banking and wealth management, global banking and markets, commercial banking, and private banking.
9.Comerica (CMA) is generally considered a regional bank, headquartered in Texas and operating primarily in only five states. Nonetheless, it is one of the top 25 largest banking companies in the U.S. and among the top 10 in number of commercial loans.


overview

Banks play a key role in the entire financial system by mobilizing deposits from households spread across the nation and making these funds available for investment, either by lending or buying securities. Today the banking industry has become an integral part of any nation’s economic progress and is critical for financial wellbeing of individuals, businesses, nations and entire global. In this article we will provide an overview of key industry concepts, main sectors and key aspects of the banking industry’s business model and trends

banking operations
Banks perform various types of transactions and activities to support their banking business. These transactions may include making or accepting payments, trading, clearing and settlement of accounts, and custody. Knowing the operational aspects of banking is very important for understanding the value chain of the banking industry. Now, we will discuss the most important supporting activities performed by banking institutions. The key operational activities are listed below:
1. Acceptance of Deposits
2. Lending of Funds
3. Clearing of Cheques
4. Remittance of Funds
5. Lockers & Safe Deposits
6. Bill Payment Services
7. Online Banking
8. Credit & Debit Cards
9. Overseas Banking Services
10. Wealth Management
11. Investment Banking
12. Social Objectives